Intel fpp
====================

## fpp-name

- [fpp-name](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/fortran-compiler/developer-guide-reference/2023-0/fpp-name.html)
- [Qlocation](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/fortran-compiler/developer-guide-reference/2023-0/qlocation.html#GUID-DF120360-7780-415F-ACF2-15A23D727801)
- [forum](https://community.intel.com/t5/Intel-Fortran-Compiler/Undocumented-behavior-of-fpp-with-alternative-preprocessor/td-p/1411981)

Lets you specify an alternate preprocessor to use with Fortran.

Syntax
Linux:
```
-fpp-name=name
```
macOS:
```
-fpp-name=name
```
Windows:
```
/fpp-name:name
```
Arguments
    name

Is the name of the preprocessor executable. It can include a path. See the description below for more details.

Default
    OFF

No preprocessor is run on files before compilation.

Description
This option lets you specify an alternate preprocessor to use with Fortran.

The compiler invokes the user-specified Fortran preprocessor by spawning a command with the following signature:
```
alt_fpp @fpp.arg 
```
where alt_fpp is the name of the Fortran preprocessor you want to use, and fpp.arg is an input file containing the preprocessor's command line arguments.

fpp.arg is generated by the Fortran compiler driver, and contains the -D<define>, -I<include directory>, and input file names from the compiler command line. Compiler predefined options -D<define> and -I<include directory> are also included. Output from the preprocessor goes to STDOUT and will be captured for any further processing.

You can use option Qoption,fpp,… to pass other definitions (using -D<define>), include directories (using -I<include directory>), or other options accepted by the preprocessor.

You can use option Qlocation, fpp,… to specify a directory for supporting tools.

IDE Equivalent
None
Alternate Options
None

## Github issues

- [link](https://github.com/aradi/fypp/issues/24)

The Intel compilers provide a flag -fpp-name=<name> which can be used to specify an alternative preprocessor of the form:

alt_fpp [ [–D<define>]..] [[-I<include directory>]..] inputfile 
which prints output to STDOUT that will get captured by the compiler for further processing.

I've tried to use this with fypp, but I run into errors:
```
$ ifx -fpp-name=`which fypp` -DNAME=\"Ivan\" fypp_example.F90 
error: Failed to open file '@/tmp/ifxargBf8BjW' for read [FyppFatalError]
error: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: '@/tmp/ifxargBf8BjW' [FileNotFoundError]
```
```
$ ifx -fpp-name=fypp -Qlocation,fpp,/home/ivan/.local/bin -DNAME=\"Ivan\" fypp_example.F90 
error: Failed to open file '@/tmp/ifxarg6DL4Me' for read [FyppFatalError]
error: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: '@/tmp/ifxarg6DL4Me' [FileNotFoundError]
```
It seems like the compiler prepends @ to the path, but otherwise it seems it could work. If you'd like to experiment, here is the toy code:
```
! fypp_example.F90
#:def hello(name)
print *, "Hello ${name}$"
#:enddef

#:if defined('NAME')
$:hello(NAME)
#:else
print *, "Hello World"
#:endif
end
```
Do you have any previous experience with such usage, or should I raise an issue at the Intel Fortran forum?